From the New York Times,
>> [music]
>> I'm Natalie Kitroeff. This is The Daily.
>> Nearly 3 weeks into the war in Iran, the
US and Israel have largely decimated the
regime's missile capacity, taken out key
leaders, and disrupted its central
command. And yet, Iran has not backed
down.
>> [music]
>> In fact, the regime has become more
hardened and is wreaking more havoc than
ever. [music]
Today, my colleague Eric Schmitt on how
Iran continues to challenge the most
powerful military in the world [music]
and what President Trump's options are
for getting out of this conflict.
>> [music]
[music]
>> It's Thursday, March 19th.
So, Eric, we had you on the show 10 days
into the war to lay out where things
stood. Not in terms of rhetoric or
stated goals, things that have been
pretty hard to nail down, but in terms
of hard facts, what has actually
happened on the ground. And here we are
almost at the end of week three of this
war, and we want to do something
similar. So, please orient us. Where do
things stand right now?
So, here we are, as you said, nearly 3
weeks into this campaign, and from a
military standpoint, the commanders
think they're doing pretty well.
The United [music] States is decimating
the radical Iranian regime's military in
a way the world has never seen before.
They think they're actually a bit of
ahead of schedule. In less than 2 weeks,
we've rendered the Iranian navy combat
ineffective and continue to attack naval
vessels.
>> They've hit over 120 [music] Iranian
naval vessels. This includes ships that
lay mines in the Gulf. They've struck
more than 7,800 targets in Iran.
>> Wow. These are things like missiles,
[music] missile launchers, drone storage
areas. And this is the US and Israel or
just the US? This is just the US. Wow.
>> The Israeli Air Force has carried out
its own campaign in parallel with the
United States, and they in particular
have gone after many of the Iranian
leaders.
Israel claimed to have hit the hideout
of Iran's security [music] chief.
There's another big hole in the top of
the leadership.
>> They've killed the top security chief,
Ali Larajani.
>> Another killed by Israel, Gholamreza
Soleimani. [music]
He was the head of
>> They've killed the head of the Basij,
the militia group that ruthlessly
suppressed protesters in January. And
then on Wednesday, they announced they
killed the intelligence chief for Iran.
>> He was responsible for overseeing the
country's entire global terror network.
>> These are very prominent strikes that
they've carried out against the
leadership of the country at this point.
So, these are obviously massive blows to
the structure of the regime. To what
extent do those deaths though actually
impact the regime itself? Because it
seems like they're still there. That's
right. The regime has been quite
resilient.
Iran has been hitting back with attacks
across the region.
>> using underwater vehicles to hit tanker
ships off the coast of Despite the fact
that they've lost these top leaders,
they have factored that into their
planning. Well, Israel has also been
under attack. Iran launched a new wave
of retaliatory strikes overnight.
>> Iran is clearly striking back here after
Israel confirmed the killing of two of
the Islamic Republic's most powerful
officials.
>> They're new ways, including through the
use of these cluster munitions, to get
through Israel's air defenses, cause
damage, and also tonight fatalities. And
so, they've been able to fight on even
as the Israeli and American militaries
continue to degrade their ability to
fight back.
And that's really important because
right now it's what the military calls
an asymmetric war.
The Iranian regime, weakened as it is,
knows it can't go toe-to-toe with the
Israeli and American militaries. So,
they're fighting almost a
guerrilla-style campaign at this point.
Right. And how is the Pentagon assessing
then its progress? How does the Pentagon
see the war thus far?
Well, again, the Pentagon looked at this
as maybe a 4-to-6-week campaign from the
start. And again, we're coming toward
the end of the third week, and they feel
by their metrics, they're doing pretty
well at degrading and destroying the
leadership, some of the military sites,
Iran's ability to fight back, Iran's
ability to produce new weapons. So, they
think they're doing pretty well.
And Eric, in terms of loss of life,
where does that stand on all sides of
this?
Well, right now, the Times estimates
that there've been at least 2,100 deaths
on the ground in the war so far. Over
1,300 of those civilian deaths, mostly
in Iran itself. There've been deaths in
some of the other countries that have
been attacked by Iran, Saudi Arabia, the
United Arab Emirates, and Qatar. So,
those countries have suffered as well.
On the American side, the death toll is
now up to 13 that have been killed in
action, with scores of others being
injured in various attacks in as many as
seven different countries. And
obviously, all of that is tragic loss of
life. On the American side, is that
number, that 13, is that low if you're
the Pentagon? I mean, when you just
think about the level of operation that
is being carried out here and the time
that it's taken.
That's right. Any death, any US service
member in combat death is tragic, but I
think most commanders would say as
tragic as these numbers are that it's
still on the relatively low side. Things
could have gotten much worse. Obviously,
about six of these American deaths came
when two refueling aircraft collided
over Western Iraq last week, so that's
an accident itself. But, it was
interesting in the second briefing
during the first week of the war,
Secretary Pete Hegseth said that about
90%
of the 50,000 American troops in the
region had been moved away from their
main bases in the region. That reflected
the concern they had with potential
casualties. So, you've got several
thousand American troops still on the
ground, but it's really the main
operators that are still in place and at
risk as opposed to a much larger
potential target set for Iranian
missiles and drones. Okay, so bottom
line, it sounds like the Pentagon is
feeling like it's executing its military
mission successfully.
I do hear a but though in what you've
been saying because you've been careful
to emphasize military success. That's
right because on the other side of the
coin, there are political goals. And of
course, the president has been
articulating several over the last
several days, some of which seem to
conflict with each other. And certainly
on the first day of the war, he talked
about regime change altogether in Iran.
He seems to have moved away from that.
He talks about denying Iran's capability
to ever develop a nuclear weapon. Right.
He talks about devastating Iran's
ability to project power in the region.
That is its ability to threaten not only
the United States, but its neighbors in
the future. And so it's a shifting array
of targets and also a shifting end state
as we come to the end of this third
week. Right. And as you've said, despite
all of the decimating of Iran's military
capacity that has happened, the regime
is not backing down. So just explain
that. What are we seeing?
Well, the main thing that we're seeing
is with the dwindling amount of
resources that the Iranian military has,
they're being very selective in their
targeting. They're still trying to hit
American bases, American embassies in
the region, but their most important
thing is they're basically now entering
a new phase where economic warfare is
probably their biggest tool. So now what
they're doing is they're going after the
economic vulnerabilities of the United
States and international community.
>> about the Strait of Hormuz. Exactly.
This narrow strategic waterway through
which so much international commerce
flows in and out of the Persian Gulf.
And what they've been able to do is with
a handful of mines, the New York Times
has reported, but just the threat of
attacks, they've basically brought
international commerce to a trickle. And
that's the main concern right now of the
administration because it's sending
global shockwaves in terms of the
economic impact this is already having.
And Eric, just to understand the
situation on the ground, the way that
Iran is holding up traffic in the Strait
of Hormuz, it's not just theoretical
[snorts] threats, right? There have been
actual attacks. That's right. I think
nearly 20 different tankers, whether
they're oil tankers or cargo tankers,
have been struck. And that has a real
deterrent on other shipping companies
and their insurers who might want to
send ships either out of the Gulf or a
growing number of ships that are waiting
on the other end to come back into the
Gulf itself. And Eric, can you just
explain how exactly they're hitting
ships? Just on a tactical level, what
they're doing, how they're doing it, and
with what weapons? Like, how does this
work?
Sure. There are three main kinds. One is
their mines that they can put out in the
water. And the Iranian military is
believed to have somewhere between 5 and
6,000 mines. It may have actually been
more. And these are mines that actually
are can float on the surface or they can
be attached to the seabed in the narrow
bottom of the Persian Gulf, and they
can, you know, detach and attack naval
ships that way. So, that's one way.
Another way is just from missiles that
can be launched from the shoreline just
to the north of the strait is Iranian
territory. And so, whether they're
cruise missiles or other kind of
missiles, they could fire at ships and
cause all sorts of other damage. Another
means is
Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps
has scores, if not hundreds, of
speedboats.
>> Speedboats. Yeah, speedboats that can go
around and they've harassed naval
traffic. And you've got some guy on one
of these speedboats with a
rocket-propelled grenade, and suddenly
he could get within just a couple of
hundred meters of a target, and there
you go. So, there are multiple means
that Iran has to threaten shipping,
which is really had a very severe effect
on traffic moving in and out of that
strategic waterway.
Yeah, I mean, when you imagine a
speedboat coming through with an RPG on
it or like a floating mine, it really
underscores the extent to which Iran can
hold up this choke point for the entire
global economy, really, in a super
nimble way that doesn't seem to be all
that affected by this enormously
successful thus far military campaign
against them.
That's right. Just on Tuesday night,
they announced that the US military has
dropped several 5,000 lb penetrating
bombs that go to missile silos that are
right along the shoreline of the Strait
of Hormuz. But, the problem here is even
if you get 95, 98, 99% of the threat
eliminated, there's always going to be
that 1% chance or less that some kind of
rocket or missile could get through and
damage or destroy some valuable ships.
Yeah. And it seems as though Iran has
been able to direct these attacks
without their senior leadership fully
intact, right?
>> That's right. And that's mainly because
what Iran did is they had a very
decentralized system of attack. They
have what's called a mosaic defense.
They have some 30 different districts,
basically, that they've assigned
defenses to, so that if you knock out
the central command and control in
Tehran or any one of these important
leaders in the intelligence service or
the military or the IRGC, these
independent districts, their commanders
already have a set of general
instructions, and they can continue
carrying out attacks with the weapons
that they have. Yeah. I mean, just to be
crystal clear here, we are seeing the
most powerful and sophisticated military
in the world being stymied, essentially,
by this totally decentralized strategy
carried out by a seriously weakened
country that has had 90% of its missile
capacity destroyed. Obviously, it's not
new. We've seen asymmetric warfare in
the past, but the fact of Iran being
able to exercise complete control over
this hugely important waterway
is wild.
Right. And that's the challenge that the
American military faces, but it's also a
challenge that President Trump faces
because he
>> Right. has demanded that various allies,
both in the region and NATO allies, pony
up ships and other resources that could
help, you know, defend the strait. So,
it's it's both a military problem, how
do you get at the threat, but it's
emerging more and more as a political
problem, how do you marshal the
resources of the international community
because everybody's affected by this.
The global economy is affected by this.
>> But the Iranians know this is their real
ace in the hole.
>> This is their leverage. This is their
leverage and as long as they can hold on
to it, again, as an economic leverage,
they have, you know, a lot of influence
over this final decision.
Okay, I want to ask about the president
and the extent to which he understood
and calculated that these issues with
the strait were going to happen and were
going to happen to the extent that they
have. Because, as you said this week, we
saw Trump ask for help from his allies,
from European and Asian allies of the
United States to help solve this
problem. He then criticized them when
they were reluctant to do so.
This is after he didn't really consult
them or seek partnership in advance of
this war. In the beginning, he acted
though the United States definitely
didn't need help. It suggests to me as
though he might not have foreseen this
problem. What do we know?
Well, what we do know is that both
intelligence leaders and military
commanders, such as General Dan Cain,
the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, Admiral Brad Cooper, who's the
head of US Central Command, that's the
military command that's actually
carrying out the operation, they briefed
to the president and his senior advisers
well in advance of the war itself. And
they pointed out this was very much
predictable because the the problem of
the Straits of Hormuz is not a new
problem. This is something you can point
back to, for instance, in the Iran-Iraq
War of the 1980s, and it was a problem
then.
>> Right. What was perhaps took
some military officials, and certainly
some in the White House, I think off
guard was A, the extent that Iran would
attack its fellow neighbors, its
neighboring countries with a ferocity
that it did. Defense Secretary Pete
Hoekstra has even acknowledged that. I
think the other thing was, while
obviously this was always seen as a
threat, many believe that the Iranians
wouldn't reach for this card right away.
But the problem with that is it's also
been briefed that by the intelligence
community was that if Iran believed that
it was a an existential threat to the
regime,
that they might reach for that ace in
the hole, bottling up the the Strait of
Hormuz, faster than certainly this
administration anticipated. The US did
not have the naval assets in place to
deal with this kind of a threat right
away. Their mine sweeping capabilities
antiquated. Some of the ships that
they've got aren't even in the Gulf
region now. Two of them are in Asia, and
they hadn't marshaled any kind of
international support for the kind of,
you know, remedies such as a tanker
escort operation that you might need.
>> Right. So this is something that, while
it was predictable, I think the way in
which the Iranian regime reached for
this option quickly and with as broad a
strokes that it did, I think took some
American officials off guard, and now
they're playing catch-up to some extent.
Eric, I want to just stay here for one
more minute because of the extreme havoc
that has been wreaked by the Strait
being shut down for so long. Do the
Pentagon folks that you talked to
acknowledge
that this misread was a colossal
failure? Do they look at this as a
really big mistake that could have been
avoided?
No, they still say this would have been
in their planning all along. Perhaps it
wouldn't have had to be addressed this
quickly in their plan. They would have
liked to have, you know, battered away
at the uh their main target sets, the
missile launchers, of course. You know,
they want to hammer away at Iran's
military capability to fight back.
That's what they're doing.
And how you deal with this kind of
economic problem was maybe more
secondary. Certainly was in the plan.
It's just now they have to accelerate
how you deal with this threat because
it's become such a major political and
economic problem for the White House.
Okay, so now [clears throat] that we
know the Iranians are seeing this
appropriately as an existential threat
and are essentially saying that they are
willing to fight indefinitely. Now that
the oil situation is getting more and
more serious by the day, we know the
president doesn't want to see a huge
economic fallout continue. What are the
ways out of this?
So, the options are not good.
They basically range from bad
to really bad to worse for the president
right now. And those are the kind of
decisions that he and his top advisers
are now weighing.
>> [music]
>> We'll be right back.
Okay, Eric, if we are looking at options
that range from, your words, bad to
super bad to worse,
where should we start? What's on the
table and what's the likeliest path that
you think the US military will take now?
So, the first option is how do you deal
with this problem of the Strait of
Hormuz that we've been discussing. And
one of the options on the table is for
the US Navy, perhaps with other
countries to basically conduct tanker
escorts where you have navy ships that
would escort commercial vessels out of
the Persian Gulf and then take other
ships back in.
These are probably navy destroyers that
are equipped with special radar that can
track incoming missiles, deal with
drones, that kind of thing. They would
almost certainly be accompanied by
drones and helicopters overhead that
could also detect drones not, you know,
only in the air but in the sea. Wow.
They would be looking for threats on the
shoreline and they'd be keeping an eye
out for those speedboats that we talked
about with the gunmen on board who might
fire an RPG at vessels. So, it would be
a very complex operation where you'd
have to have dedicated as many of 12 or
so of these specialized destroyers
leading some number of commercial
vessels through this strait, which is 21
miles at its narrowest point. You're
going through channels and again,
they're going to go through this as they
look for all these different threats
that could pop up at any given time.
And if you look at it, the possibility
of a missile getting through one of
these warships
getting hit and maybe American sailors
being wounded or killed, that's also
very much a distinct possibility. Right.
>> And the ultimate decision here will rest
with the shipping companies that own
these vessels as well as their insurers
is it worth, even with the protection of
the US military and perhaps the
militaries of other countries that
donate ships, is it worth the risk of
getting your cargo through? That's the
risk that they have to balance
>> Right. versus holding off and waiting
for a some kind of diplomatic solution,
which right now the chances look quite
remote of of achieving anything like
that. Yeah, I cannot imagine being a
captain on one of these tankers
imagining such a voyage. So, that option
does sound bad, does sound incredibly
risky. What's the next one? So, the
second main option is basically taking
over
a place called Kharg Island. This is a
small island in the northern part of the
Persian Gulf off the Iranian coast,
which is Iran's main oil hub. About 90%
of its oil production go through this
place. And just last week on President
Trump's orders, the US military bombed
the military installations. Over 90
targets were hit on this island itself.
These are the military emplacements that
protect the oil infrastructure there.
Now, the president at time said, "I
ordered the Pentagon to avoid hitting
the oil infrastructure because of the
long-term economic impact this would
have not only on Iran
when the time comes if you want to help,
you know, rebuild its economy, but also
the impact it would have on the global
economy, the shock that would have of
taking, you know, the Iranian oil such
that which continues to flow through the
Strait of Hormuz, by the way, taking
that off the table." Right, it sounds
completely counterproductive to imagine
a strike that would just blow up the
entire infrastructure of Iran's oil
economy, right? Right. So, what's the
option? Okay, so one option is to take
those Marines that are steaming, you
know, from the Pacific region, and have
them do some kind of amphibious landing
or some other kind of military operation
to seize control of this strategic
island and pressure the regime to
concede on other fronts because the
Americans control this very important
economic hub for Iran. But, they'd have
to go through the Strait of Hormuz,
right? If I have my geography right? I
mean, we're talking about these Marines
popping out of the water, but they have
a tough journey to get there. Before
that.
>> Yes, and everybody everybody would see
them coming because as you said first
they'd have to go through that straight
and presuming if they make it through
that safely with all the protection that
they and their equipment would have,
they could make it up several more
hundred miles up into the northern part
of the Gulf, then they would have to
stage this operation which presumably
the whole world would be keeping an eye
on. There'd be no strategic surprise
there in doing that.
>> Yeah.
Even if you were to succeed with that
mission and military commanders again
have for years planned this as a
possibility if they ever went to war
with Iran.
Once they seize this territory, they
immediately become a target for the
Iranian military which is a just a short
ways off the coast of Iran. Right, they
have to defend it once they seize it.
>> They would have to defend it, exactly.
So they could then again be threatened
by whatever remains of Iran's arsenal of
drones and missiles there. So there's
again something that they'd become quite
a high threat to do. Now, you take the
risk of seizing the island but it could
backfire on you if somehow during the
course of the initial invasion or
subsequent occupation the the oil
infrastructure there is damaged and then
you've kind of lost the whole point of
taking this island if if the economic
part of it is destroyed or damaged
seriously. And this option of seizing
Kharg Island, in the best case, you're
saying, it would essentially allow the
US to put a lot of economic pressure on
Iran. My question is
is there any guarantee or even
expectation
that that kind of pressure would
actually effectively stop Iran from
continuing to do what it has been doing
which is wage asymmetric warfare that is
disrupting traffic through the strait,
attacking its neighbors, all of this
stuff. Is that pressure seen as
effective in this context? Well, there's
no guarantee at all, Natalie, that that
this strategy would be effective. And
what we're seeing now is with many of
the top leaders killed, what might
remain of an Iranian regime may be even
more hardline than what existed before,
be even less willing to negotiate with
the United States, particularly if they
felt they had this gun to their head
literally and economically, they're
willing to basically, you know, go down
as martyrs rather than knuckle under to
the American demands. So, there's no
guarantee this would work at all. Okay.
So far these options have not left me
with a particularly optimistic view of
what's coming.
Is there anything else available? Well,
yes. And obviously, one of the things
that President Trump has talked about
from the very beginning of this
operation is denying Iran's capability
to develop a nuclear weapon.
This goes back to last June, the
American bombing missions that hit three
different Iranian nuclear sites, but
Iran was still able to preserve a large
amount of highly enriched uranium, much
of which has been stored right now in a
facility called Isfahan in underground
bunkers and tunnels. Right. So,
at the end of any kind of conflict, the
idea would be that somehow for the
president to really consider this
mission an overall success, you'd have
to address whatever happens to that
highly enriched uranium. Right.
>> This is uranium that isn't ready to be
made into a bomb, but it's can be
processed to the next level to that bomb
grade capability. So, what do you do
about that? And you could continue
bombing and entomb that material under
so much rubble that it would be very
difficult for the Iranians to get at it.
And even if they did in the future, the
presumption is the United States would
continue to fly some kind of aerial
surveillance aircraft or use satellites.
And if they see the Iranians at any time
trying to dig that material out, they'd
go back and re-strike it. Another option
the president's talked about is sending
ground forces.
>> [music]
>> Basically be commandos that are
specially trained to go into very
dangerous situations like this, go down
into these tunnels, and somehow extract
these canisters of highly enriched
uranium that are in gaseous form,
>> [music]
>> and get them out all without having
these canisters being destroyed.
>> Mhm.
>> [music]
>> In order to do this, you have this core
team that would go down into these
tunnels with nuclear trained experts to
extract it, to bring it out of the
country altogether,
>> [music]
>> or to neutralize it so the Iranians
couldn't use it effectively. But you'd
have to ensure a security ring around
this team that goes in. So, you'd have
to have several hundred troops basically
seize the territory around Isfahan to
safeguard the operation while it's
underway, and then to ensure that they
are able to get out safely. [music]
>> Right. My colleagues have pointed out to
us that if one of these canisters were
to be pierced, the moisture inside
>> [music]
>> would release gas that's highly toxic
and also highly radioactive. Woah. So,
you've got that problem. You also have
the problem of trying to extract these
canisters that could
>> [music]
>> inadvertently set off a chain reaction
with this nuclear material.
To state the obvious, this option seems
incredibly risky and dangerous [music]
and kind of insane. It is.
And again, this is something the
president has openly talked about this
as an option. So, again, this would not
be a surprise. So, the Iranians, again,
they know this is the ultimate target
for the United States. They're going to
fight to the death to protect it and
preserve it because that, you know, in
the end is really what they want to hold
on to, their ability to produce a
nuclear weapon. So, what you're
describing
is a very difficult situation for the
president in particular as he is looking
at what he said were the goal posts and
what it would actually take to achieve
those goals. I just wonder whether there
isn't a final, less horrible option in
all of this, which is the president
coming out and saying that this is over
and that we have actually accomplished
enough,
calling it quits at this point, cutting
bait. Is that
a potential?
Well, it certainly is because the
president's actually floated this idea.
He's talked about how, you know, the war
is essentially over from a military
standpoint, of how they've already
achieved these extraordinary goals of
degrading or destroying much of Iran's
ability to fight back, much of its
ability to terrorize and threaten its
neighbors and the United States. The
leaders that the United States has
condemned for all these years, many of
them are dead. And even if a weakened
regime was in place, hardline that it
may be, it could be contained. Although,
we are currently seeing the limits of
that containment because while they are
weakened, they are still able to create
tremendous instability in the world. But
but go on. That's right. I mean, again,
this is the rhetorical case that the
president presumably would make if he
decided to essentially declare victory
and move on. Also, we should point out,
I mean, for one side to declare victory
in a war, it doesn't mean the war is
over, right? Like, Iran doesn't have to
agree. Iran could keep firing back in
all the ways that we've seen. That's
right. And Iran could could take other
steps that we haven't discussed, like
activating terror cells in the region in
Europe or the United States.
And to be sure, Israel may not want to
stop fighting either. They may have
goals that are not fulfilled both in
destroying Iran's capability to threaten
Israeli territory. The president and
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu talk
almost every day about this and they are
not necessarily on the same page in
terms of when to quit this fight. But so
far they've been consistent in their war
aims. But we've seen instances where
these are diverging and we may see it
eventually if the war continues to go on
and if these options that we've just
been talking about just impose too much
pain for the president to accept, too
much risk for the president to accept
and for him to basically say, I felt we
can declare victory at this point, but
the Prime Minister of Israel may decide,
no, that's not the case.
Eric, I want to return to one of the
biggest justifications for this war,
which is achieving regime change in
Iran. Does anyone actually think that
this military campaign could still
produce regime change? You've been
saying from the beginning that expecting
airstrikes to produce a change in
government, it's really difficult to
imagine.
And I'm just wondering
if anyone is still holding out hope
given how hardened the regime has been
by this campaign even as leader after
leader in Iran has been taken out. I
think most American intelligence
analysts would say no, that right now
there isn't really a good chance of
regime change right now. The best you're
going to get is a badly weakened state.
Yes, it may be filled with hardliners,
but it's very unlikely at this point
that you're going to have regime change
of the kind that the president talked
about on the first night of the war
where you have popular uprisings
throughout the country basically
overwhelming what remains of a state.
And so, what you're left with is kind of
a rump IRGC-led
type government with still the
instruments of repression to basically
attack any kind of protest. You've seen
no serious defections from the regime
that would show serious cracks. Now,
we'll see with the deaths of these
recent leaders if that will still hold.
Uh is there a point where the regime
just becomes too brittle to survive? So
far, they've proved more resilient, I
think, that either American or Israeli
officials believe they would be by this
point in the conflict. You know,
returning to the options that face Trump
and the possible paths to an end to this
conflict, it feels as though
that is very much tied to the story of
the war in general, which is what are
your goals? And how do you determine
when you've actually achieved them? And
it seems like that is still very
uncertain for the administration, for
Israel, for everyone involved.
I think that's right, Natalie. And I
think what you've seen is the president
is really weighing two conflicting
impulses.
On the one hand, he may want to double
down, send in ground forces. Or,
does he look for an off-ramp? Does he
declare victory and find ways of
basically ticking off a series of
achievements that would basically say in
the end, "We're safer now than they were
at the beginning of this operation, and
I therefore can say this is in a victory
for the American people." Mhm.
Which decision he'll make, we still
don't know.
Well, we will be watching alongside you,
Eric. Thank you so much for coming on
the show again.
Thank you very much.
>> [music]
>> On Wednesday, Qatar's state-owned energy
company reported that missiles had
caused extensive damage to a major
energy hub in the country, which is one
of the world's largest exporters of
liquefied natural gas.
The Qatari government blamed Iran, which
had vowed retaliation after an earlier
attack on an Iranian gas field.
In a Truth Social post late Wednesday
night, President Trump said Israel was
responsible for the attack on the
Iranian gas field, and he claimed the US
had no idea it was going to happen.
He also threatened Iran, saying that if
the country attacked Qatar again, the US
would blow up the rest of the oil field.
We'll be right back.
Here's what else you need to know today.
You told the media that I was a freaking
[music] snake, and that you completely
understood why I'd been assaulted. I was
shocked that you would justify and
celebrate this violent assault that
caused me so much pain and my family so
much pain. [music]
During a sometimes fiery confirmation
hearing, Republican Senator Rand Paul of
Kentucky confronted [music] President
Trump's choice to run the Department of
Homeland Security, Senator Mark Wayne
Mullin, over his past statements,
[music]
including remarks in which Mullin seemed
to approve of a violent attack on Paul
several years ago that resulted in
broken ribs and a damaged lung.
I I just [music] wonder if someone who
applauds violence against their
political opponents is the right person
to lead an agency that has struggled to
accept limits to the proper use of
force. I did not say I supported it. I
said I understood it.
There's a difference. What do you think
most people would interpret completely
understand to be support for or a
condemnation of the violence?
Sir, as [music] I said, we can have our
differences. It's not going to keep me
from doing my job as the Secretary of
Homeland Security. [music]
McAleenan, who's known for his combative
style, sought to strike a conciliatory
tone. He said he believed that he could
work with Democratic [music]
mayors and sheriffs in sanctuary cities
that oppose the Trump administration's
agenda on immigration.
And these law enforcement, and I would
even say these mayors, they still love
their community. They still love their
their cities. [music]
Uh they still love this country.
So, maybe it's a misunderstanding we can
work by. And I'm going to start [music]
with that and hopefully work with them
and never work against them.
The Homeland Security Committee is
expected to vote on McAleenan's
nomination [music] today.
Today's episode was produced by Rochelle
Banja, Carlos Prieto, [music]
and Mary Wilson. It was edited by Page
Cowett and Lisa Baelen, and contains
music by Dan Powell, Alicia [music] B.
Eatoop, Marion Lozano, and Rowan
Nemirow.
Our theme music is by Wonderly. This
episode was engineered [music] by Chris
Wood.
That's it for The Daily. [music] I'm
Natalie Kitroeff. See you tomorrow.